A question that you're going to get asked at every interview that you do.
Tell me about yourself.
What should you say.
And I'm going to leave this on the screen so you can just read it on your own.
But this is something that should be already prepared and you're ready to answer.
And really nail it how can we answer this question successfully.
You see this is the chance for you to steer the conversation in the direction that you want in the prepared
stories.
Of the four heroes that you want remember you're going to direct the rest of the conversation after
they ask you this question to why you want them to ask you so you can shine some of the key takeaways
here.
You want to answer this question in about a minute.
If you go too long into it while the interviewer is going to get bored and if you go too short then
they don't get enough of a chance to get to know you.
The key here is for you to tell your hero's journey how you went from very little skill to somebody
that they want to hire.
Think of it like a movie you want to talk about your triggers of success within this minute.
You want to demonstrate that you're a successful person.
You also want to slightly discuss maybe your past projects your past companies so that you get asked
questions about these projects or passed companies by the interviewer because keep in mind the interviewer
is going to ask follow up questions based on this.
And when you talk about yourself maybe it's interesting that you were an origami master five years ago
but it might not matter to the interviewer.
So make sure that your stories your hero's journey is relevant to the job.
And you mentioned some of the skills that you're going to be working with at this job within this minute.
You want to demonstrate that do be extremely lucky to have you and how everything you've done in the
past makes this a perfect role for you.
And keep in mind that an interviewer may not have even looked at your resume so have a story prepared.
Something difficult you did and why you did to solve that and what impact it had.
You don't need to talk about your life story how you went to elementary school and high school.
Just keep it short and to the point.
But make sure you stand out from the crowd.
Everybody might be able to code in Javascript.
But what did you do that makes you stand up.
And that's something that you're going to have to answer on your own.
Keep in mind that this type of question there's different variations on it.
Some people ask.
Walk me through your resume or why are you leaving your current job or many other variations.
Essentially they want to hear the story of why you're here.
And as an example here's what I would say if let's say you have zero experience so you just tie yourself
to code and this is your first job interview.
You can say something along the lines of well I get really interested in coding.
A couple of years back when I would start this small little side businesses and I would hire developers
and designers to build a web site or an app for me and it was always a block box where I would pay this
developer money and they'll come back with a product that I was never fully satisfied for.
So I started teaching myself how to code because I wanted to know how this black box works.
And the more I learned the more I learned I became really interested really in golf in the programming
landscape and I just started consuming as much information as I can practicing as much as I can.
I started building projects and then this is where you can talk about some of your big portfolio projects
and all of a sudden I started writing blog posts about technical subjects that got received very well
and I guess what I'm trying to say is that through these projects and through these posts every day
I'm becoming better and better as a coder to the point that now I feel very confident and being able
to be a valuable asset to your team not just now but even a year from now where I expect my skills to
exponentially grow.
And this is just an example that I came up with at the top of my head but you see here how I touched
on all three points shows that I'm successful that I've had past businesses in the past how I've taught
myself how to code because of an interest that I had.
So I'm the type of person who's a go getter.
I also mentioned a few things I want to ghast such as.
Both written maybe projects have worked on my personal projects that I've put into my portfolio and
I also talked about skills relevant to the job maybe this was a position related to web development
or building an app.
And this is something you can tweak.
But the key thing is to have this prepared.
And remember you want to stand out.
Don't say things that all the other developers are saying or programmers are saying if you did something
amazing in your life even if it isn't coding related try to work it into the interview.
And that way you will be more memorable.
And this is going to set the stage for the rest of the energy so good luck out there and I'll see in
the next video.
Buh-Bye.